MONTH OF December
Happy birthday, Sagittarius! This year’s Sag season is especially dynamic because energizer Mars is also traveling through your sign and will be blazing up your first house of visibility and personal passions all month. While things might suddenly zoom into warp speed (hold on for dear life!), it’s likely to be exciting, especially during the first half of the month. 

No need to wait for January 1 to make your 2024 resolutions. The December 12 Sagittarius new moon marks your personal new year, the perfect time to declare your intentions for the year ahead.

You’ll be glad to get an early start because on December 13, communicator Mercury turns retrograde until January 1, a holiday buzzkill if there ever was one. Mercury will split its backspin between Capricorn (until December 23) and Sagittarius, meaning YOU will be in the quicksilver planet’s crosshairs for both Christmas and New Year’s Eve. We swear it’s NOT because you’ve been naughty instead of nice, Sagittarius (who are we kidding? Naughty all the way!). But we won’t lie: This lump of coal in your celestial stocking won’t be easy to ignore. 

In the first half of the month, sign your deals and contracts, lock in your holiday plans and back up all your important data to stave off as much Mercury mayhem as you can. With the moon in Gemini and your partnership house on Christmas, team up with a reliable person if you celebrate. This is NOT the year to try to do all the hosting, entertaining and Santa-ing yourself. 

Things start to shift the day after Christmas, when healer-feeler Chiron ends a five-month retrograde and helps you express yourself powerfully again. December 26 also brings the year’s final full moon, this one in Cancer and your eighth house of intimacy, bonding and wealth. You could receive a financial windfall or a proposal (romantic or business) in the week between Christmas and New Year.

Perhaps the biggest gift arrives on December 30, when your ruling planet, lucky Jupiter, ends a four-month retrograde. As Jupiter powers forward for another five months through Taurus and your healthy, grounded sixth house, you could begin the year on a surprisingly clean, green note. Mocktails at midnight anyone? The New Year’s Eve moon in wellness-oriented Virgo will make you even more determined to get a powerful start to 2024. Virgo rules your tenth house of status and success, so maybe you should actually RSVP “yes” to that black-tie event or do some goal-setting before you head out for champagne, dancing and to watch the ball drop.

It’s Sagittarius season until December 21
It’s your time, Archer! With the Sun moving through Sagittarius and activating your first house of self until December 21, you’re on top of the world—or on top of YOUR world, anyhow. Go-getter Mars is also in Sagittarius all month, adding even more steam to your dreams. The spotlight is on you now! Even your fast-moving Centaur hooves may have to race and scramble to keep up with everything you’ve got going on. 

Our advice? Buckle up and enjoy the ride. Mars only visits your sign every two years, and it’s not always in sync with the life-giving Sun. Because you’ll have to stretch out of your comfort zone and be “on” a lot more than you’re used to, boost your vitality with exercise, proper rest and healthy food.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

With your birthday season in full swing, you should be soaking up all the attention and reveling in your independence. You’ve got Mercury retrograde nipping at your heels, so there’s a lot to pack in before December 13. Enjoy this moment, Sagittarius—you’ve earned it. Take these first three weeks of December to focus on personal goals and deeply cherished dreams. 

What matters to you now, at this moment of your life? How can you make it a major theme of your next trip around the sun? It doesn’t matter how “impossible” it seems. If any sign is famous for creating their own reality, it’s yours. 

Neptune retrograde ends on December 6
Just in time for the holidays, hazy Neptune wakes up from a five-month nap in Pisces and your fourth house of home and family. Lingering guilt trips and unspoken resentments will start to dissipate as Neptune returns to direct (forward) motion. Clear the air with relatives BEFORE you spend a significant block of time under the same roof, especially since Mercury will be retrograde in the second half of the month, exacerbating tensions. Preventive measures will pay off.

If your living situation has been in flux or your “who’s staying with who over Christmas” plans are still up in the air, things should start to land and come back into focus now. Issues with a parent, child or female relative could finally get resolved. Has your home gotten chaotic with all the projects you’re juggling? Neptune retrograde could inspire a purge and decluttering that brings serenity back to your space.

The December 12 Sagittarius new moon
Forget waiting for January 1 to set intentions, Archer. Your personal new year arrives on December 12, when the year’s only Sagittarius new moon reboots your personal passions and goals. As usual, you’re ahead of the curve. And with Mercury turning retrograde tomorrow, you’d be wise to make your resolutions a little early—along with some birthday season wishes. 

The new moon in your sign shines the spotlight on your loftiest initiatives. What do YOU want for yourself, Archer, and where would you like to leave your mark? This is a great day to make a big ask or to take a bold step toward something personally fulfilling that will unfold over the coming six months. With the new moon in your first house of appearances, it’s also a great time for a style overhaul or to make a splashy debut, whether you’re launching a passion project or unveiling a new look.

The karmic north node in Aries is supporting this new moon, adding some extra glamour, a pinch of passion and even a shot of fame to this date. Don’t be surprised if you attract the spotlight or feel called to share from the heart. Just watch for guilt trips from family members today since the new moon will be loosely at odds with Neptune in your domestic zone. Don’t feel bad about prioritizing yourself, even if someone you care about seems to be taking it personally. You can’t clip your wings just because other people are too afraid to fly. Instead, soar by example.

Mercury turns retrograde on December 13
False start? It might feel like one the day after the Sagittarius new moon, when the energy takes a sudden sharp U-turn. From December 13 to January 1, Mercury, the ruler of communication, travel and technology, will turn retrograde, throwing a string of curveballs into the celebratory energy for the rest of 2023.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

For the first ten days, Mercury will go rogue in Capricorn and your second house of money, which could cause some scrambled signals as you rush to complete projects before the holidays. Minimize distractions. Watch your finances, especially if you’re shopping online, since Mercury retrograde could make you susceptible to erroneous charges and phishing scams. Strengthen your passwords and check all your statements.

Trying to close a deal before the year is through? You’ll want to wrap up negotiations in the first part of the month. If you can’t sign on the dotted line or resolve a relationship matter before now, then it’s best to hold off until the new year. Rushing will only force you to retrace your steps and do needless work fixing your errors.

It gets even trickier on December 23, when Mercury reverses into Sagittarius, back-spinning through YOUR sign for the rest of 2023. Don’t completely curb your enthusiasm, but do be mindful who you share with because people are likely to misunderstand your messaging and intentions now. Ugh! Feel your audience out before you unleash the raw or raunchy parts of your personality. What you might think is funny could deeply offend someone and come back to haunt you.

The Sun enters Capricorn on December 21 (winter solstice)
Pause to prioritize. On December 21, the Sun will move into Capricorn and your second house of security for a month, bringing a grounded and productive energy. You could get inspired about all your 2024 plans, so take some time to jot your ideas down and consider where you’d like to spend your time, money and energy in the year ahead.

This stabilizing annual cycle is also a good time to revamp your daily habits and routines, take stock of your lifestyle and evaluate where you could stand to make some changes. Research some options but wait until Mercury turns direct (forward) on January 1 to initiate any major lifestyle overhauls. 

The December 26 Cancer full moon is a powerful moment
An intense portal opens on December 26, when the year’s second Cancer full moon beams into your intimate eighth house. This realm rules long-term finances, property and deep bonds, all of which could be on your mind today. Think back to January 6 of this year, when the first full moon in Cancer kicked off 2023. Resolutions from early this year could resonate again. Which ones are still unaddressed and might be worth another look?

Since full moons bring turning points and manifestations, you could be making an important decision about an “investment”—whether that’s in bitcoin, a relationship or something intangible. Are you getting a good enough return on all that you’ve put into this? If not, it’s time to either exit or change things up. If you are happy with what you’re getting, maybe this is something you should put even MORE of your focus into for the coming year.

You’re back! Jupiter retrograde ends on December 30
Way to launch into the new year! Two days before 2023 comes to a close, your ruling planet, Jupiter, will end a four-month retrograde. This forward sprint will help you complete the year with a positive outlook. Luck, optimism and your adventurous spirit return.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Jupiter is midway through a yearlong visit to Taurus and your sixth house of health, fitness and organization, which spans from May 16, 2023, until May 25, 2024. But since September 4, Jupiter has been retrograde. Over the fall, some of your fitness and wellness goals may have hit a plateau, or merited a deeper dive, even a second opinion. Dormant control issues and anxiety, especially around work, flared for many Archers while Jupiter was retrograde. Now you’ll feel back in the driver’s seat again. 

Did you overdo it on the holiday treats? Keep calm and Sagittarius on: Jupiter will remain in Taurus until May 25, 2024, providing ample time to get back on the wellness wagon and straighten out your finances. Start with an epic decluttering, and purge stuff that’s been taking up psychic and physical space. Prioritize. Streamline. Focus. If you attend to the handful of projects that are most aligned with your values, you’ll get the right return on investment. The sixth house rules helpful people, so refresh Team Archer with some savvy service providers, and delegate duties to them.

Look who’s the hot for the holidays! From November 24 until January 4, thermodynamic Mars is racing through Sagittarius, turning on your first house of identity, energy and assertiveness. It’s a high-visibility cycle for you, and you’ll find yourself at times having “too much of a good thing.” Hey, you can’t help it if your confidence and charisma are irresistible to the masses!

While hosting Mars will be fun and flirty and you’ll get a ton accomplished, you could wind up paying a premium for all that excitement unless you pace yourself. Mars is famous for bringing as much stress and emotional intensity (e.g., jealousy and competition) as it does lustiness and passion. 

On the upside, there’s no question that this Mars transit can be great for your libido. Single Sagittarians should waste no time speeding up the process if you’re feeling an attraction, even if you’re not convinced this person is a keeper. (How else will you find out?!) No self-judging if things accelerate from zero to the boudoir in record time. You’re magnetic and have the “It factor” now, and since this Martian phase only happens every two years, you should absolutely make the most of it. If your love life has been in slow-mo—or has been a total no-show—add some unexpected, sexy surprises.

If that surprise comes in the form of an ex, don’t be surprised. Not only is Venus in Scorpio and your twelfth house of closure from December 4 to 29, but Mercury will be retrograde from December 13 to January 1 (partially in YOUR sign). This cycle is notorious for bringing back exes, so don’t be surprised if someone from your past pings you, especially when Mercury and Mars meet up on December 27, one day after a full moon in your erotic eighth house!

With vixen Venus sashaying through your quixotic twelfth house until December 29, it’ll be hard not to indulge some dreamy fantasies and play out events at upscale holiday parties. Leave enough time to shop for the perfect holiday outfit—if you haven’t already selected one. And make sure you build in opportunities to cozy up a deux with the object of your affections. It’s easy for your socially outgoing sign to give equal weight to friends and your partner, but this is the time of year when you need to show (not just declare) your highest loyalty. 

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Of course, that may be a little challenging once Venus blazes into your sign on December 29, making you the apex of the action (and attention) wherever you go until January 23. If you’ve been a little too internally focused at times, your mojo will be back with a vengeance. Fold in sultry Mars’ magnetism, and you’ll have people eating out of your hand. 

Been waiting for a special moment to debut a sleek and distinctive (or just plain sexy) new look? New Year’s Eve is your moment to flaunt yourself! With the moon in Virgo and your commanding tenth house, it’s okay to stand out from the crowd and show the world your VIP side tonight.

It’s Sagittarius season until December 21 and this year, you’re feeling especially hyped to make some big moves. Go-getter Mars is in YOUR sign—from November 24 to January 4 to be exact—stoking your ambitions and pouring rocket fuel into all your solo endeavors. The Sagittarius new moon on December 12 brings a brilliant moment to declare your intentions for a promising next chapter.

While Mars can add stress it also boosts your mojo and magnetism. Slip into your signature sexy ‘fit and serve up the extra helping of charisma that the red planet bestows on you. This visit from Mars only happens every couple of years and when it does, you’re even more motivated than you already are naturally. 

The second half of the month gets a little tricky since communication planet Mercury is retrograde from December 13 to January 1, and it will back through YOUR sign after December 23. Keep your schedule light and be extra forgiving with yourself if you make mistakes. You deserve a break like the rest of the world, and you may have too many irons in the fire now to fully recuperate and unplug.

The Cancer full moon on December 26 beams into your wealth sector, stirring up good vibes for a joint venture or a financial windfall. When lucky Jupiter, your ruler, ends its retrograde on December 30 in your organized sixth house, you could find a meaningful new avenue of work or start building your Sagittarius dream team.

Love Days: 19, 25

Money Days: 5, 14

Luck Days: 29, 12

Off Days: 22, 26, 9